Document agentless Feature Flags delivery for Node.js (#38231)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/feature_flags/implementation_patterns/serverless.md

## Overview

> The Datadog Feature Flags Node.js SDK can receive Universal Flag Configuration (UFC) directly from the Datadog-managed CDN. This _agentless_ configuration source does not require a Datadog Agent, which makes it the default delivery mode for supported Node.js serverless applications.

Author: still not sure about using "ufc" or just "flag configuration"

Author: Addressed in [4df3f4876b2359d8a2de96b0344c555787ec8da6](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/commit/4df3f4876b2359d8a2de96b0344c555787ec8da6): Replaced UFC terminology with flag configuration.

After configuration is loaded, flag evaluation happens locally in the application. The SDK does not make a network request for each evaluation.

Agentless configuration delivery is available in:

| SDK | Minimum version |
|---|---|
| Node.js `dd-trace` v5 | 5.116.0 |
| Node.js `dd-trace` v6 | 6.5.0 |

> Other server SDKs and earlier Node.js releases require Agent Remote Configuration for flag delivery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other server SDKs and earlier version releases require Agent Remote Configuration for flag delivery.
```

> <div class="alert alert-warning"><strong>Flag evaluation only:</strong> The initial Node.js agentless releases load configuration and evaluate flags locally. They do not support evaluation metrics, exposure logging, or experimentation use cases.</div>

Reviewer: More consistent with other callouts about this on other pages:
```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-warning">The initial Node.js agentless releases load configuration and evaluate flags locally. They do not support evaluation metrics, exposure logging, or experimentation use cases.</div>
```

> ## Default agentless architecture

Reviewer: I'm not sure about calling this "default" yet, since only 1 SDK supports it currently. We can change this once agentless actually is the default in all (or even most) cases.
```suggestion
## Agentless architecture
```

Use agentless delivery when the serverless runtime can make outbound HTTPS requests to Datadog:

> 1. Use a Node.js SDK version listed in [Overview](#overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use a [supported SDK version](#overview).
```

2. Configure the API key and environment in the serverless application:

   {{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
   DD_API_KEY=<DATADOG_API_KEY>
   DD_ENV=<YOUR_ENVIRONMENT>

>    {{< /code-block >}}

Reviewer: Fixes a rendering bug:
```suggestion
   DD_ENV=<YOUR_ENVIRONMENT>{{< /code-block >}}
```

>    If your organization is not on the default `datadoghq.com` site, also set `DD_SITE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If your organization is not on the default {{< region-param key="dd_site" code="true" >}} site, also set `DD_SITE`.
```

> 3. Initialize or access the Datadog OpenFeature provider as described on the [Node.js setup page][3]. This starts CDN polling. No Feature Flags enablement or source setting is required.

Reviewer: Eventually we'll need to make this link more generic, if more SDKs start supporting agentless. But OK to keep for now, just tweaking the anchor text:
```suggestion
3. Initialize or access the Datadog OpenFeature provider as described in [Node.js setup][3]. This starts CDN polling. No Feature Flags enablement or source setting is required.
```

Set `DD_FEATURE_FLAGS_CONFIGURATION_SOURCE=remote_config` to explicitly use the existing Agent Remote Configuration path:

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
# Serverless application
DD_FEATURE_FLAGS_CONFIGURATION_SOURCE=remote_config
DD_AGENT_HOST=<PRIVATE_AGENT_HOSTNAME_OR_IP>
DD_TRACE_AGENT_PORT=8126
{{< /code-block >}}

Configure the Agent with Remote Configuration and the API key:

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
DD_REMOTE_CONFIGURATION_ENABLED=true
DD_API_KEY=<DATADOG_API_KEY>
DD_SITE=<DATADOG_SITE>
{{< /code-block >}}

The serverless workload must be able to reach the Agent on a private network, and the Agent must be able to reach Datadog over HTTPS. Do not expose the Agent trace intake publicly.

Explicitly selecting `remote_config` enables the Feature Flags Remote Configuration subscription, even if application code does not initialize the provider. These requests contribute to server Feature Flags billing.

## Operational considerations

- **Cold starts**: Blocking provider initialization waits for the first configuration and can add cold-start latency. Initialize asynchronously if serving caller-provided default values during startup is acceptable.

> - **Outbound connectivity**: Agentless delivery requires HTTPS access to the Datadog-managed UFC CDN. It does not require access to Agent port `8126`.

Author: ufc

Author: why both with agent port here?

Author: Addressed in [4df3f4876b2359d8a2de96b0344c555787ec8da6](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/commit/4df3f4876b2359d8a2de96b0344c555787ec8da6): Replaced UFC with flag configuration and simplified the agentless connectivity requirement to outbound HTTPS.

- **API key ownership**: In agentless mode, the application owns `DD_API_KEY`. In `remote_config` mode, the Agent owns the API key.
- **Flag updates**: Delivery is eventually consistent. Allow for the SDK polling interval and application startup time when testing changes.
- **Last-known-good behavior**: After a configuration has been accepted, temporary network failures or malformed responses do not replace it.
- **Runtime support**: Agentless configuration removes the Agent requirement, but it does not make an otherwise unsupported Node.js runtime compatible with the tracer. Check the tracer's compatibility requirements.

> - **Kill switch**: `DD_FEATURE_FLAGS_ENABLED` defaults to `true`. Set it to `false` to disable the provider and both configuration delivery paths.

Author: mention againt that it will return programmatic defaults here

Author: Addressed in [4df3f4876b2359d8a2de96b0344c555787ec8da6](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/commit/4df3f4876b2359d8a2de96b0344c555787ec8da6): Documented that disabling Feature Flags returns caller-provided default values.

Datadog-managed agentless delivery is not available for Datadog for Government in these versions. Use Agent Remote Configuration on that site.

If your deployment uses `DD_EXPERIMENTAL_FLAGGING_PROVIDER_ENABLED`, see [Migrate from the legacy provider setting][5].

## Environment notes

### AWS Lambda

Node.js Lambda functions can use agentless configuration delivery when they run a minimum SDK version and can reach Datadog over HTTPS. The Datadog Lambda Extension is not required for flag configuration, but you can continue to use it for supported serverless telemetry.

### Google Cloud serverless environments

Node.js workloads can use agentless configuration delivery when the tracer is supported in the selected runtime and outbound HTTPS is available. This applies independently of in-container or sidecar telemetry instrumentation.

> ### Azure functions

Author: Addressed in [4df3f4876b2359d8a2de96b0344c555787ec8da6](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/commit/4df3f4876b2359d8a2de96b0344c555787ec8da6): Capitalized the Azure Functions product name.

Node.js function apps can use agentless configuration delivery when the tracer is supported and outbound HTTPS is available. An external Agent is only required when `remote_config` is selected.

### Edge runtimes

Some edge runtimes do not support the Datadog Node.js tracer APIs required by the Feature Flags provider. Verify tracer compatibility for the target platform before relying on agentless configuration delivery.

> 

Author: Not applying this suggestion. The previous platform list described the Agent-backed delivery limitation, but agentless delivery does not require an Agent. Vercel and Netlify Functions can use Node.js runtimes and support varies by runtime, so declaring all three platforms unsupported would be inaccurate. Keeping the runtime-neutral tracer compatibility guidance.

## Public API and local evaluation

The public [Feature Flags API][4] is intended for managing flags and environments. It is not a per-request flag evaluation API for server-side applications.

> Do not query Datadog APIs from each serverless invocation to evaluate flags. Use the server SDK, which periodically loads UFC and evaluates locally.

Author: ufc

Author: Addressed in [4df3f4876b2359d8a2de96b0344c555787ec8da6](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/commit/4df3f4876b2359d8a2de96b0344c555787ec8da6): Replaced UFC with flag configuration.

## Validate your setup

Before enabling agentless Feature Flags in production:

> 1. Confirm the application uses a minimum Node.js SDK version.

Reviewer: This assumes that _all_ serverless setups will also be both agentless and Node.js. If non-agentless or non-Node.js use cases are still possible, we should tweak to allow those:

```
Before enabling Feature Flags in production:

1. Confirm the application uses a [minimum supported SDK version](#overview).
```
